>> Kyle Simpson: So again,
follow along with that code on the slide.
And I'm gonna be diagramming it for
you and we're gonna go line by line and
create the entities.
Before we even get to line one,
we need to diagram a bit about what's
happening in line zero, in other words,
what's happening before your
program has even started to run.
And in this diagramming I'm gonna use
a very simple notation which is I'm gonna
use squares to represent objects and
circles or
whatever I can approximate
thereof to represent functions.
I am drawing with a trackpad so
it's not gonna be great drawing please
forgive the quality of my artwork.
I'm going to diagram first the lines
zero environment i'm going to do that by
drawing a line across here that basically
says everything above this line is
the line zero environment, and then below
it is where we'll diagram the program.
Above this line in our
line zero environment,
there's one very critical entity.
It is a function, so I will draw
it as approximately a circle and
it goes by a pretty familiar name,
it goes by the name capital O, object.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'm just gonna
abbreviate cuz I don't like writing out
this whole words, but
it's called object, capital O object and
that's a function that exists.
And you all have seen that that's
one of our fundamental objects
that's built into the language, probably
one of the most important of those.
We have capital O object there, and
by the way, it has several things on it.
It's got object.keys and object.values,
and various other utilities.
So it's not only a function, but
it also serves as a namespace
to have other methods on it.
So there are a bunch of really
important general utilities that we use
across JavaScript, that are located
directly on that function.
But there's another entity that exists and
it is a square.
So I will draw a square here,
something like a square.
And it is probably the most important
object in all of JavaScript.
It's so important in fact that we
don't even have a name for it.
We can't come up with a good name for it.
So you know how we name it, is we name
it referring to what points at it.
There's a property on
the object function that points
over at this thing and
that property is called prototype.
Writing is really painful here.
I'm just gonna abbreviate with proto here.
It's called prototype.
That is the name of that property.
So if you've ever seen object.prototype,
that's the property pointing from
the object function over to this
thing called object.prototype.
And there's a bunch of really
important stuff on object.prototype,
like toString, and valueOf, and
all these other fundamental utilities
that exist in our language.
All non-primitives descend directly
from this object.prototype, so
it's a really important object.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is one other thing
that exists in our line zero environment
which is a property that's
pointing back the other direction.
It's pointing from here over to here and
that property they chose a really
perplexing and frustrating name for.
They choose a specific name because what
they were trying to do was essentially lie
to you, to pretend as if
JavaScript system had classes so
they choose to name this constructor.
And I'm just going to
write c-o-n to abbreviate.
It's called constructor.
So you have this object.prototype
which points at this object, and
if you had that object and
then said .constructor,
it'd be pointing back at this
object function as if the object
function was the constructor of
the object that pointed to it.
But that work constructor in
the fundamental prototype
system has no more meaning
than the word fubar.
Other than to convince you,
that this is a class system because it has
constructors in it and we will see a bit
later that's what constructor
basically comes in and pretends it,
it helps the artifice if you will,
that we are dealing with a class system.
So that our line zero environment.
Now I'm gonna start diagraming
again with the same notation but
I'm gonna start with line one.
On line one, we have a workshop function,
do I'm gonna draw a circle and
it's called workshop.
But I'm just gonna abbreviate w for
workshop.
That's the function that
exists on line one.
But also what exists on line one,
that is not obvious,
is that there is another object that has
been created as a result of line one and
that object is also pretty important.
At the moment it's empty but it's
gonna serve a pretty important purpose
except it's so important that we
don't have a good name for it.
And so we refer to it by
the property that points at it.
And I bet you can guess what
that property's called?
That property's called proto,
prototype, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: I could
probably be using the text tool,
but I just didn't wanna mess around
with switching between tools.
So that's called prototype.
So we refer to that object
as workshop.prototype,
which is what you see on line four,
workshop.prototype.
It's a bizarrely named word like
where does prototype even come from?
I've tried to search for the origins of
prototype within computer science, and
it's a murky etymology at best.
I can't come up with why we
use this word prototype or
what it's even supposed to mean.
But there is one other thing
that exist on this line one,
which is that there is a linkage
from here back to here,
there is a property pointing back, and
that one is also called constructor.
>> Kyle Simpson: And again, that exist
only for the purpose of trying to pretend
to you that, that object was
created by the workshop function,
as if the workshop function
is a constructor for classes.
And one final thing that exists,
there is a hidden relationship
between this object and this object.
I'm gonna do it, if I can,
with a dotted line.
There's a hidden relationship
between those two.
We'll come back to that
relationship later.
But all that's a result of line one.
You follow me?
All right, let's move to line four.
We'll come back to two later.
Let's move to line four.
On line four, we make a property and
add it to workshop.prototype.
It doesn't matter that it's
a function at this case.
So I'm just gonna literally write it in.
We're just adding a property called
ask directly to this object.
You with me?
That's what line four does.
We'll skip down to line eight.
That's what's really interesting.
And I wanna review,
if you wanna pull up a slide or
flip back in your slides, there were
four things that happened whenever
the new operator was put in front of a
function call the way it is on line eight.
Now we want to do those four things and
I'm gonna diagram each one of them.
So number one, the first thing that
happens when new is put in front of
a function call is that it creates
a brand new empty object out of thin air.
So here is my brand new empty
object out of thin air.
And then it links that
object to another object.
So here I'm gonna do a linkage,
this little hidden linkage
with the dotted line.
It links that object to another object.
Number three.
It invokes the function that
it was called in front of.
It invokes that with the this
keyword pointing at the object.
So here we are, now,
I'm gonna move to line two, and
the this keyword is pointing at this
particular object, and what does it do?
It adds a property called teacher,
so we're gonna put teacher
directly right here on it, and
I'm just gonna abbreviate that with t-e-a.
We put teacher directly on that object.
That's what line two does.
Everybody following me?
Now the fourth and final that the new
keyword does, when it returns it back,
if the function does not return an object,
which in this case it does not,
the new keyword assumes that you meant to
return to the this keyword, that brand
new created object so that's get
returned back and it gets named deepJS.
So this object is called deepJS.
I'll call it deep.
That's what happened with line eight and
if you understand what happened with line
eight the exact same thing
happens with line nine.
So I'll simply draw it in.
>> Kyle Simpson: My drawing
is getting much worse.
And then it gets the teacher property
added on to it and it comes back and
it's called in this case reactJS.
So I'll just say R-e for reactJS.
That's that object from line nine.
Everybody understand where these
entities are coming from and
what their relationships are?
Okay, so let's look at line 11.
On line 11 of that code snippet,
we say deepJS.ask.
Does the deepJS object, this object
right here, does it have an ask method?
It does not.
So why is it that we're
able to call that method?
Because our mental model if we were
thinking about these as classes
is that the ask method would have been
copied to the instance but it isn't there.
Instead, what is gonna happen is that
internal linkage, which is called
the prototype chain, in Speck,
they use bracket, bracket prototype.
It's called the prototype chain, and
so internally there's a linkage from
the deep object, this one right here,
up to this object.
So when we look for
a property on an object and
it doesn't exist, by default,
what we do is do do do do do do do.
We walk up one level to the next
object in the chain and
we ask if it has that property.
Which in this case, it does.
It has an ask method.
When we invoke the ask method,
which was line five essentially,
what is the this keyword gonna point at?
Which object is the this
keyword gonna point at?
It's gonna point at this object.
Why?
Because the call site is line 11.
The call site says invoke that
function in the context of deepJS.
It doesn't matter where we
find the function from.
In this case, we found it up the prototype
chain, but it doesn't matter,
we still use the call site to invoke it.
You're not used to generally thinking this
deep about the plumbing of JavaScript.
But I think it's important, critical that
you not have incorrect models of thinking.
All right.
So if we can say that with deepJS,
we can also say that
with the react object.
The react object on line 14 when we say
.ask, the exact same thing happens.
We don't have an ask method but
we go do do do do do do.
We find the ask method when it is invoked,
it's this keyword is pointing out our
object so when it says this .teacher
which property is it accessing?
This one right here.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's awesome right?
We're able to share one method with
potentially an infinite number of
instances and they're all able to share it
because of the this binding behavior and
that prototype linkage.
It's actually a really awesome system.
I'm not at all saying
that the prototype or
the this keyword system is bad, I'm
only saying that maybe it's a little too
limiting to try to think about this
only through the lens of classes.
Maybe the system is actually much more
powerful than the class design pattern.
If you switch to your next slide you'll
see the diagram of the buildings.
And I'm gonna switch back
to the slides now, so
if you wanna copy this down or not copy it
down that's okay, my little bad drawing.
But now at least you understand where some
of those fundamental behaviors are coming
from, those relationships are coming from.